# Project Euler solutions in functional TypeScript

I'm working through the [Project Euler](www.projecteuler.net) problems in TypeScript, and using them to get better at coding in a functional style.

## Using this as boilerplate

This package includes all the problem definitions and correct answers (through number 330), as well as a test setup to check your answers.

To use it for yourself, without any of the solutions I've worked through, you can check out the `boilerplate` branch:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/HerbCaudill/project-euler.git
git checkout boilerplate
yarn
```

(Or you can run `npm install` instead of `yarn`.)

### Solving the first problem

The `src` directory will contain a file called `001.ts` that looks like this:

```ts
// Problem 1
// =========
// If we list all the natural numbers below 10 that are multiples of 3 or 5,
// we get 3, 5, 6 and 9. The sum of these multiples is 23.
// Find the sum of all the multiples of 3 or 5 below 1000.

const specialSum = (N: number) => {
  // code your solution here
}

export const solution001 = () => specialSum(1000)
```

### Checking your answer

Once you code up a solution, you can check it by running the test script:

```
> yarn test problems

yarn run v1.12.3
$ tsdx test --watch problems
 PASS  src/problems.test.ts
  answers
    √ Problem 1: 233168 [0ms]

Test Suites: 1 passed, 1 total
Tests:       1 passed, 1 total
Snapshots:   0 total
Ran all test suites matching /problems/i.
```

The test output shows the correct answer, as well as the time required to run your solution.

### Going on to the next problem

You can generate a harness for the next problem, including the problem description, by running `yarn next`
(or `npm run next`). This will create a file named `002.ts` that looks like this:

```ts
// Problem 2
// =========
// Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the
// previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be:
//    1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ...
// Find the sum of all the even-valued terms in the sequence which do not
// exceed four million.

export const solution002 = () => -1
```

Each solution file should export a function called `solutionNNN` that returns the correct answer,
either as a string or as a number. (Don't export the value directly.) If the function returns `-1`,
as it does when the file is first created, the test script will skip it.

### Working with helper files

As I work, I've been adding helper files for common tasks (factoring numbers, generating primes, etc.)
to the `src/lib` directory. I've left one example in there, `sum.ts`, along with its test file, `sum.test.ts`.

You can run the tests for a helper module with `yarn test sum` (or whatever the module is named).

## Credits

I used the awesome [tsdx](https://github.com/palmerhq/tsdx) CLI to bootstrap this project.
